NXP S32G
********

This page has specific information for running L4Re on NXP's S32G2 and
S32G3.


Building
========

Build an image for the S32G as follows::

  $ make uimage E=hello PT=s32g

Booting
=======

The S32G BSP needs a device-tree. Usually, a .dtb file is available on the
flash on the device. Just use this one with u-boot.


Booting with u-boot
-------------------

The standard BSP by NXP comes with u-boot.

To boot L4Re, intercept the u-boot boot countdown such that the boot is
stopped and the u-boot prompt is shown.

At the prompt, do something like the following. Please adapt files names as
required::

  # fatload mmc 0 0x80f00000 fsl-s32g274a-evb.dtb
  # fatload mmc 0 0x80ffffc0 l4re_vm-multi-p2p_s32g.uimage
  # bootm 0x80ffffc0  - 0x80f00000

The ``dtb`` should be available on the emmc already as it is the same as
used for booting Linux.

Copy the ``l4re_vm-multi-p2p_s32g.uimage`` file to the mmc first, for
example, through Linux.

Booting via Network
-------------------

u-boot can also be used to retrieve the uimage via TFTP. A typical workflow
can be::

  # dhcp
  # fatload mmc 0 0x80f00000 fsl-s32g274a-evb.dtb
  # tftpboot 0x80ffffc0 /path/on/your/tftp/server/l4re_vm-multi-p2p_s32g.uimage
  # bootm 0x80ffffc0  - 0x80f00000

You might also need to set the correct networking configuration, this
depends on your board and the specific network configuration. For example::

  # eqos physelect 4


Additional Resources
====================

- :ref:`use-case-emmc-s32g`
